This was a little trickier
than our last examples,
you're doing it right and
if this was a little bit of a struggle,
it just goes to show why sometimes doing
the number crunching in the wrangling
phase as opposed to during the
visualization interface can be a helper.
Yeah, questions from the chat.
>> One of the objects has
a Resolution value of not set.
How would you recommend that we
handle that just use null values for
the width and height?
>> So good question.
I guess it depends on,
in terms of a real world application.
It depends on what you want to do
when you're missing data values from
your data set.
So, in some cases, like for example,
when we're converting to numeric values,
we might just be dropping
those missing numbers, or
you might be choosing some kind of.
Default value that you want to stand in,
for
missing values like zero for example,
so we'll see in our next exercise
when we're plotting the resolution
values in kind of more detail.
We'll see that we might end up with
some zero values that are artifacts
from those kind of missing data values.
So one thing you could do if you wanna
exclude those from your visualization,
is you could use a filter
operation like we said before,
to make sure that any rows of the data
that are missing values that you
care about don't get included
in the final data set.
Or if you want to be visualizing those
separately as maybe a different category,
you could be doing that in your
data wrangling phase as well.
Cool, good question.
Okay, so let's see if we can get this
user total bar chart happening here.
So what I've done is I've just pasted
in our previous chart with the count.
And so we said that in this one,
if we open up these hints.
The calculation that we wanna
perform here instead of count,
is the sum of a particular value.
But if I replace sum here,
instead of count,
I'll notice that nothing
really happens to my chart.
And that's because plot is still
essentially summing up observations, and
so in this case it's kind of
the same thing as sum versus account
when we're talking about observation,
so instead and we're telling plot.
Hey sum up whatever variable,
whatever property is on the y axis,
what we need to do is specify
which variable we care about for
the y axis by passing it into our
inputs configuration as well.
So in this case we care
about that users property,
so what I'm going to do is
add in to our inputs here,
in addition to device
being along the x axis.
At the end of the day, what we want
on the y axis is the number of users.
It's just that instead of the direct
number of users for each different
observation, as if they were all
little tiny bars along the x axis.
We wanna smush them together and
just get one bar with
its y value set at the sum of the users
values for that device category.
So by declaring the same channel
in our inputs as our outputs,
we're telling plot,
hey taken users for that y axis value.
But instead of outputting
the original values,
group them together by device category and
sum up those y values.
Some of those users count for
the y values.
So let's see what happens when we do that.
So now we see that the units have changed.
And I think maybe we just need to
add a little bit more margin here.
To see the numbers there we go,
okay, they're not all zeros.
And again, we cannot configure
the size and shape of our plot here.
We could do other things like
configure the, we could change this
to be in the millions of users by
changing the units in our data.
And so now we have got actually we see
that the difference is even more stark, we
have a lot more users for desktop devices
than we do for tablets for example.
Okay, now what else did we wanna do here,
we wanted to try to color
the bars by device category,
did anybody figure out
the way to fulfill in here?
So in this case we're not actually
doing any aggregation on the colors or
the device categories, so
we're just going to include another input
channel here that's not going
to get transformed at all.
That's going to fill the bars
by the device category.
And again we already saw
in our last exercise or
our last project how we can
override the color scales.
Range values, if we wanna have
different colors for these.
But in this case, we don't really need
to map them to any kind of meaning,
we just need to distinguish
the three different kinds, so
the default colors will work fine.
Now, what about the title?
We said we would be cool to
add a tooltip with the actual
value of the total number of users.
So, this is going to follow
a similar pattern to the way that
we declared the users.
Some should come through on the y channel,
we're going to do something
similar with the title channel.
So in this case we're gonna add
in the title as the users value,
to our inputs here and
we're gonna perform that same sum
operation on the title channel
that we did on the y channel.
So that now, hopefully when we hover,
we see a tooltip with the total
number of users for each category.
Eventually we have to wait
a little while for it to show up.
Okay, any questions so
far on that excercise?
Yeah, I think we have one question, yeah.
>> Yes, so for this y has a title of sum.
So when we hover over the bar and
see this number,
are we seeing the y's sum of title or
are we seeing the x's title of users?
>> So what we're seeing with
each of the channels is that,
we've declared in these outputs
of this group transform,
is the sum of whatever value
we've passed into that channel.
So here we're seeing two different
representations of the same value.
Where the value is the sum
of the user's channels.
So first of all,
we're seeing it on the y channel.
So we're seeing it with
the height of each of these bars.
That corresponds based on our output
domain here sorry, our output range,
corresponds to the relative
input values from our domain.
But then also when we hover over them,
we are seeing that same value
encoded in the other channel,
the title channel, which we have
also passed in the same users.
Column, the same users value
due to that transform.
So essentially we're telling plot
to do this same calculation, and
express it as two different channels.
So express it on the one hand as
the height of each of these bars,
the y channel, and on the other
hand as the title on each of these,
Bar elements that shows up as that
little tooltip when we hover over.
So essentially we're similarly
to in our last project,
we kind of reduplicated the success or
failure state through both the film
channel and the stroke channel.
It's a similar approach here.
It's just we have the added complication
of there's an aggregation transform
happening.
So in both cases, we're grouping
that number of users based on
the three different values for
device, that we have in our dataset.
Okay, so we've done our first
aggregation operation pretty cool.
And now we have a more useful chart.
And we'll leave it as an exercise to the
reader to play around with if you wanted
to, let's say aggregate by the number
of sessions that we saw in the dataset
instead of the number of users.
I bet at this point,
you can figure that out real quick.